[melancholic music]
[Narrator] 1,900 Years ago,
a massive pit was discovered
on a remote island
in the southern
sea of Beoluska.
[dramatic orchestral music]
This mysterious formation
had a captivating power to it.
It is home to dangerous, yet
valuable primeval creatures,
and mysterious relics that
are beyond comprehension.
These relics have
enticed adventurers
looking to strike it rich.
[dramatic orchestral music]
In time, it gave rise to
the giant city of Orth,
but to this day,
no one has ever
seen the bottom.
Over the span of many years,
with a spirit of
adventure for the unknown,
and with legends
luring them in,
many people have come
to meet their fate,
swallowed up by the
chasm's beckoning call,
swallowed up by The Abyss.
[eerie animal sounds]
[birds calling]
[man] Did that belong to
those people from yesterday?
[woman] Yeah, from that
foreign cave raider squad.
And you know, some of
those ruffians
didn't even have whistles.
It's all very exciting.
Here you go,
in moderation please.
Hm.
[heavy footsteps]
Ah!
Oh, certainly.
[distant voice]
Unmovable Sovereign!
Come take a look at this!
I guess it wasn't to her
liking then.
-[woman] Uh, no.
-Huh?
[woman] I'd say by
the look on her face,
she wanted another helping.
[man] You can see that?
[woman] Sure can.
Torka, your cooking
is absolutely the best.
[Torka] Our
destination is beyond
the garden of the flowers
of fortitude, right?
[woman] Yes, it is truly
beautiful there.
I really want you to see it.
And also,
I want you to see it too.
Well,
maybe you'll be eager enough
to see it with your own eyes.
[dramatic orchestral music]
[birds cawing]
[Riko] Come on, Nat!
Why are you following me?
[Nat] Whatever, Riko.
You know I'm responsible
for the area above yours.
Oh, yeah.
I keep forgetting.
Well, you can at least help me
carry the relics back, then.
Why should I?
'Cause it's important.
I need my haul to receive
the highest valuation out
of all the red whistles today.
Doubt that's going to happen.
[Nat] This area's already
been searched.
There's not going to be
anything of value left to find.
That's why it's going
to come down to quantity.
And you're okay with that?
Mm-hmm.
[giggle]
How about fudging the
numbers with that thing
you swiped the other day?
The Star Compass?
I can't do that.
I mean, it's whole purpose
is to guide its user
towards the truth of the Abyss.
Besides, if they find
out I was hiding it
I'll get it worse than
being strung up naked.
[crying]
Do you realize how
traumatizing that is?
We'll just have to be careful.
[metal clanging]
I'm really going to go all
out on my excavating today.
[grunting]
I'll get so much stuff,
Leader will be at
a loss for words!
[panting] All right.
Let's do this.
I'll get first assessment.
[grunting] There's one!
Oh. [giggle]
And two!
[hollow echo]
-[screeching]
-And three.
And four.
I can do it if I
just try really hard.
At this rate, it's
only a matter of time
until I'm bumped up to
the 600-meter group.
[grunting]
Hey, Nat, help me out, will you?
[grunting] So heavy.
Where'd he run off to?
Dangit, Nat.
[grunting] [gasp]
[growling]
Crimson splitjaw?
What's it doing this far up?
[growling]
Oh, no.
Is that-- is that blood?
[gasp] What should I do?
No.
Nat's going to be eaten alive.
[roaring]
[whistling]
[growling]
Huh? Ah!
[grunting]
[screaming]
[thud]
My arm. Is it broken?
It's fine?
-[growling]
-[whimpering]
-[roaring]
-Ah!
[panting]
[whimpering]
[screaming]
Ah!
[panting] Ah!
-[roaring]
-[screaming]
[explosion]
[groaning]
[distant roaring]
[grunting]
Whoa.
The petrified trees are melted.
I think somebody may
have just saved me.
Uh.
Ah! That's so beautiful!
Ah?
[panting]
[powering down]
[grunting]
Uh, excuse me, there.
He's-- he's not breathing!
He needs some help!
[grunting] Huh?
[squishy sounds]
Ah!
He feels really weird.
Huh?
How cool! He's not human!
A machine?
Ah! This is kind of huge!
I've never seen this.
He still feels warm.
He must have just
stopped moving.
[wind blowing]
But I have to wonder where
did this boy come from?
[birds tweeting, wood creaking]
[bell chiming]
Good work out there yesterday.
You didn't manage to
excavate all that much.
But for most of you, it was
the first time working solo.
So that's to be expected.
For next week,
I'll have you set up
at the same site 100 meters
down to continue your work.
Those who have lost
their equipment
can file with General Affairs.
That should be it.
Huh?
And now, class, a word
from the director.
There is just one thing
I would like to say.
It's important that you realize
your possession of a whistle
is based on being a
student of the orphanage.
You must strive to work
hard so as not to shame
your parents who fell so nobly.
Ah, and one more thing.
-[Shiggy] That's two things.
-[Nat] That's two things.
Keeping any found relics
for yourself is forbidden.
[whimpering]
Is she looking at me?
Relics provide valuable
income to the orphanage.
So selfishly holding on to
any of them is inexcusable.
[whimpering]
I don't want to hear any
complaints about this.
She totally knows it was me.
Next time, punishment will
be far more than severe.
Do keep that in mind.
That is all.
[Leader] Dismissed.
She doesn't know.
I'm safe for now.
[Riko] Okay, how's that?
[Shiggy] I think he moved.
Really?
[boy] What is that?
Is someone there?
[electrical noise]
Maybe we should try turning
up the power a little bit.
Are those children's voices?
Yeah, very good.
Set the dial to 2.
I'm on it.
No matter.
I'll sleep a bit longer.
Done here!
[Riko] Shiggy, can
I press it now?
-Riko, you set it to 20.
-Huh?
[screaming]
[gasping]
He's awake!
[cheering]
Oh, yeah.
You see? I was right.
I told you that electricity
would do the trick.
Says the one feeding
him hot coals earlier.
[cough]
Hey, Robot Boy.
Do you recognize me?
You saved my life the other day.
How'd you attack that
splitjaw from so far away?
Oh, but first tell
me what your name is.
[Nat] Whoa. Slow down, Riko.
You're going to freak him out.
Ah, yeah. Right. I'm sorry.
My name is Riko.
Excuse me for replying to a
question with a question, but--
Ah! He's talking to us!
Cute!
There's something I must ask.
Huh? Sure.
Whatever. Anything.
Tell me-- where are we?
Oh, yeah.
This is my very own private
room in Belchero Orphanage.
[Reg] So what do you do in here?
[Riko] Huh?
[Nat] Riko's room is actually
an old torture chamber.
They moved her here 'cause
she's always up to no good.
We're training here at the
orphanage to be cave raiders.
Well, we're still just
apprentices called Red Whistles.
Hey, Robot Boy,
what do we call you?
What kind of stuff can you do?
And who made you anyway, huh?
Oh.
That question has been
on my mind for some time.
Yeah?
You say that I'm a robot?
Huh? You're totally a robot!
Electricity made you move,
you, like, withstood fire,
and there's not a
single scratch on you!
Huh.
So you don't even remember
that you're a robot?
Maybe the shock earlier
messed with his brain.
Hey! This is really bad,
you guys.
All of the lights went out in
the whole entire orphanage.
[surprised exclamations]
I think we might have
overdone it by going up to 20.
We got to hide him quick.
Leader is going to be
heading straight over here.
How does he know it was us?
Probably 'cause it's always us.
Can you stand?
Suppose we've got
to get that off you.
Here, Riko.
[grunting]
Try to distract him
as best you can.
[Shiggy] I've got a bad
feeling about this.
[whimpering]
Don't come out of there, okay?
We'll be in big
trouble if you do.
-[Leader] Hey, Riko.
-[knocking]
-Open up!
-Ah! Okay!
Coming!
[clatter]
[whimpering]
[panting]
All right.
What did you do this time?
Huh? Nothing.
What do you mean?
But more importantly...
I just banged my foot.
Caught it at a bad angle.
It hurts really bad.
I think it may be broken.
Could you look at it for me?
[whimpering]
[screaming]
Huh?
So this must be
Shiggy's handiwork, huh?
Let me guess, you have no idea.
Riko, do you have
anything to tell me?
Please forgive me.
I won't do it again.
I know you're feeling
frustrated right now,
given your last raid
was a failure.
But that being said,
there's simply
no sense in causing a blackout.
I mean, what's that
going to prove?
Riko, you listening to me?
Riko.
[gasping]
Before I hear your
blubbering explanation,
I think I'll have you clean
up the entire orphanage
and then write an
apology to everyone.
[whimpering]
I-- I'm sorry!
[door closes]
I understand.
If I were to be found, then
it would cause some problems.
Okay. So I've got
an extendable arm.
It's metal, and it's heavy.
And I've got this helmet.
That's kind of suspicious.
Hm.
What exactly am I?
Is a robot really in
need of a belly button?
Huh? And what's this thing for?
[screaming]
Shh.
[giggle] I snuck away
while Shiggy and the others
were getting busted.
So what now?
You getting dressed up
in front of the mirror?
Oh, no. Not really.
[Leader] Riko!
Ah!
-Riko!
-Ah!
-Oh, crud!
-Where'd you go?
Oh, man.
We need to get out
of here right now.
Grab on to me. Come on.
Quickly!
[screaming]
[laughter]
Awesome! Well wasn't that handy?
Aw, yeah!
So cool.
[Leader]
Riko, where are you?
[boy] Doesn't look like
things are going
to calm down any time soon.
Oh, right.
There's something that
I'd like to show you, Reg.
Who's Reg?
That's your new name.
Not having one is inconvenient.
So that's what I'm calling you.
You like it?
I guess I don't mind.
How'd you come up with it?
It was the name of a dog I had.
A dog?
[sigh]
Come on, Reg. Hurry it up!
Hmm.
[music playing]
[wood creaking]
[sigh] We're here.
[panting]
Well, it's just about time, Reg.
[bright orchestral music]
You see?
This here is the city
where all of us live.
At the mouth of the great pit.
I welcome you to
the city of Orth.
Cool, huh?
Whoa.
[music continues]
The pit's huge.
Reg, have you really
forgotten all about the Abyss?
The Abyss?
This pit is called the Abyss.
And that's exactly
where I found you.
You were down in
the great Abyss.
Wait, what?
Well I thought that maybe--
maybe you might have
been from somewhere
at the bottom, or something.
I mean, that is,
I've never seen any kind
of robot like you before.
So that's go to be it, right?
You came from the
bottom of the Abyss,
which no one has ever seen.
The Abyss.
[Shiggy] When cave raiding
in the Abyss,
it's the return that
presents a problem.
The deeper you go, the
greater the physical toll
becomes whenever you
try to head back home.
At the first depth, you
experience mild dizziness.
The second layer,
nausea, headaches,
and numbness of the extremities.
Jump to the fourth layer.
Intense pain and bleeding
throughout the body.
The sixth layer and below,
you start to experience
the loss of your humanity,
or even death.
And so, this
phenomenon, which is
totally unavoidable for
any human cave raider,
is known to us as the
Curse Of The Abyss.
So, that means a robot should
be unaffected by the curse.
Reg, must have come up from the
bottom of the Abyss, you know?
If that's true, then
what did I come up
here to try and accomplish?
That's what I wanted to
discuss with you all tonight.
Oh, wow!
Is that the Compilation
of Recorded Relics?
Recorded Relics?
[Shiggy] It's a field guide
of all the major relics
that have been found so far.
Cool. It's the Unheard Bell!
A special-grade relic
that stops time.
You see that, Reg?
My mom is the one who actually
discovered that relic.
She's so close.
I have searched everywhere
inside this record of relics,
but there's nothing in it
that's anything like Reg here.
So, Riko, fill us in
on what you've learned
so far about Reg's features.
Sure thing.
Let's see, he seems
to be able to run
on either food or electricity.
He has the power to melt
petrified trees in an instant.
He has smooth skin, despite
it being able to stop a blade.
And fire wasn't able
to even burn his hair.
Fire?
Seems his vision and
hearing are perfect.
And his arm can extend
to about 40 meters.
Then there's
his metal parts.
They're a sort
of flexible material,
which I couldn't even
pierce with a drill.
A drill?
He has a belly button,
but I couldn't really
see inside his butt.
I tried probing him with a
stick, but it broke off inside.
[screams]
And his penis doesn't
appear to be mechanical,
it's more like a real one.
Eh, okay, Riko,
that'll be enough.
-[Reg whimpers]
-Yeah, sorry.
We probably should have
stopped her sooner.
[Shiggy] Aside from the second
half of the report,
none of those features are
listed within the relic record.
Though, they'd be above Grade 1.
What do you mean?
Reg's body is kind of like a
bundle of special-grade relics.
In the history of the Abyss,
he might be the most valuable
Yet, an Aubade, a supreme
treasure of the netherworld.
Wow! So cool!
Not even my mother was able
to find something like that.
And if that's right, Reg
will certainly be taken away
and his existence concealed.
He might be dismantled.
[Riko stutters] Uh, uh, uh.
No!
And to make matters worse,
our usual schedule
of classes and jobs
start up tomorrow.
We're not going
to have the chance
to be able to stay with
him during the day.
Oh, that's not good.
I'm just going to have
to try and keep him hidden
in my room all day.
[Nat] Good luck with that,
even your dog was found out.
In that case, I have an idea
I think just might work.
-Hmm?
[music playing]
I call it, the "Bring Together
Leader and Reg Strategy."
So, you want to be
a cave raider, huh?
Where's all your family?
I have no family.
My big sister died,
so I came here.
I heard that if I work
here I can eventually
become a cave raider.
[Leader] You don't look like
you were born here in Orth.
My sister found me
about a year ago.
I remember nothing before
that, due to an accident.
After that, I began rag-picking
with her in the wharf quarter.
That's in the Southern District.
[Shiggy] Do you think
that backstory will work?
Sounds good enough to me.
I doubt that Leader's ever
been to the slums before.
What's wrong with your hand?
Oh, no!
It's been like this for
as long as I can remember.
An old man at the wharf said
it's foreign technology.
[Leader] Clench it for me.
Hmm.
Seems your grip
is strong enough.
All right then, so
what's your name, kid?
Reg. It's Reg.
-Yeah!
-He pulled it off.
He really is an Aubade!
Oh, by the way, Reg, don't
suppose you know anything
about the incident at the Edge
of the Abyss the other day...
-...do you?
-[gasps]
What incident do you mean?
Oh, well, never mind then.
Right, come on.
[sighs in relief]
All right, let's go.
Hey, it went well, right?
Woo-hoo!
[Reg] And just like that,
I became a student
at Belchero Orphanage,
setting my sights on
becoming a cave raider.
[cheerful music playing]
[music continues]
[Reg] Two months went by
before I knew it.
I'm surprised by how
well I'm fitting in here.
It's three days
until I go raiding
for the first time, which means
saying goodbye to this bell.
You're lucky.
Don't you worry, I probably
won't be getting any bigger,
but you'll keep on
growing and growing.
I sure hope so.
[running and panting]
Ah, there you are.
-Welcome back.
-Hey, Riko.
Word is that Habo's squad
is about to return home.
Let's go and greet
them at the grand pier.
Kiyui, it's dangerous there,
so you stay here.
Yeah, okay.
[chatter]
[giggles]
[panting and grunting]
[crowd gasps and exclaims]
[man] They're finally home!
-Look, they're coming!
-[cheering]
-Here they are!
Ah! It's Habo!
Welcome back, Habo!
[inaudible]
[Riko] What's he doing?
Is that a relic?
[Reg] It's a whistle.
A white whistle.
Huh? A white whistle?
Hey, I know whose
white whistle that is.
It's Lyza's!
Lyza "The Annihilator!"
Wait, for real?
It's really hers?
No way! Are you sure?
Annihilator, what an
unsettling name to have.
So, why's he just
have her whistle?
What's that about, huh?
Riko?
But Lyza...
That's my mother's name.
It is the world's only remaining
unexplored chasm, the Abyss.
And we, the cave raiders,
dare confront her depths.
The apprentice Red Whistles,
the proficient Blue Whistles,
Assistant Instructor
Moon Whistles,
and expert Black Whistles.
And, of course, there
are the masters,
who have surpassed all
of our human limitations,
and challenged the Abyss.
I give you the heroic
White Whistles!
[cheering]
And now, the soul of the
greatest White Whistle
of all time has at last returned
home, after more than 10 years!
[uncomfortable sigh]
Is it really okay for
me to keep this?
Of course it is.
Unlike other whistles,
that one can only
be used by its original owner.
Besides that, Lyza was carrying
a sealed document with her.
Huh?
We received both it
and her white whistle
from one of the sentries
at the Seeker Camp.
However, right now
it's being examined.
It might take some time
before it gets to you, Riko.
Are you saying that, uh,
it's a letter from my mother?
Oh.
[laughter]
Well, is it?
Yeah, I suppose it is.
It's a letter written
directly to you.
[Leader] What are you doing
hiding back here?
[startled screams]
Uh, hey.
Look, this festival today
is meant to show just
how great your mother was.
And it's an important
day for you, too.
You need to take it all in.
And besides, Lyza
loved festivals.
And, in a way, this
is her final one.
So, uh, Jiruo, my mother
was once your instructor
at the Orphanage, wasn't she?
Can you tell me what
kind of person she was?
Other than her being one
of the White Whistles,
I'm afraid I can't
even remember her face.
Though, I'm not exactly sad
right this moment, I still--
I still feel like
someone I aspire
to be has suddenly disappeared.
When your mother left to go on
her last cave raiding descent,
you were still just
barely a two-year-old, okay?
I know you've heard
that as a cave raider
she was every bit
the renowned White Whistle
as all the legends say.
But that being said,
personally I never
actually got the chance to
do any cave raiding with her.
What I know of her is from
her time here on the surface.
She was a heavy drinker and
got into a lot of fights.
And you could never really
tell how honest she was being.
That mother of yours was
a real mess sometimes.
How have your eyes been doing?
Huh?
Uh, they're just fine.
As long as I'm
wearing my glasses,
I don't get the headaches.
You do understand
your eyesight is
different than other
people's, right?
Your vision itself is just fine.
There's nothing really wrong.
And yet, you suffer
headaches when
not looking through
crystal lenses,
that's not a normal thing.
The symptoms may be mysterious,
but their cause is quite clear.
It's the Curse of the Abyss.
[gasp]
Huh?
My bad eyesight isn't
from staying up late?
Yeah, sorry, that was
just something we made up
to get you to go to bed.
Has it been 12 years?
No. I think it was even
before that, wasn't it?
Your mother had just
become pregnant with you.
She was instructed to go
down to the fourth layer
with the survey team.
Uh, really? Why?
She was ordered on
a mission, a mission
to retrieve the Unheard Bell,
a special-grade relic
discovered down in the deep.
Their journey proved
difficult and it stretched on
for over 10 months.
They had repeated run-ins with
raiders from another country,
nearly wiping out
the entire team.
It was at that time your father,
a Black Whistle named Torka,
lost his life.
And in the midst of it all,
you were born.
Uh, oh, yeah?
Yes.
It is from within the far
reaches of the Abyss, Riko,
that you were born.
[gasp]
So, um, does that mean
what I think it means?
That I'm strong against
the Curse of the Abyss?
Of course not, you idiot!
Did you forget how
much you threw up
during your first cave raid?
Uh...
Trying to make an ascent
up from the fourth layer
is something unbearable,
even for adults.
But then, if that's the case,
how did I make it back up alive?
Because of the
Curse-Repelling Vessel,
Lyza it took it along
with her on the journey.
However, it was a dreadfully
heavy thing to carry.
And the then-decimated
team no longer
had the strength, nor hope,
to bring it home.
[Riko] I still don't understand.
How did I get here then?
Lyza had no choice, she had
to abandon the Unheard Bell.
Leaving behind the
corpses of her comrades,
she carried you, with the
help of one last squad member.
Bringing home just one
special-grade relic
is enough to enrich the city
and ensure a squad's future.
And yet she didn't,
because she chose you.
Prestige and riches, her
comrades and their trust,
all of it, she was willing
to give it all up for you.
You meant everything to her.
Although, she did make use of
a relic, the Curse of the Abyss
still could not be
warded off entirely.
Your mother lamented
the fact she was
unable to protect your eyes.
Besides that, you grew
up extremely healthy.
And in the face of having
a mother of such prominence,
you still try to forge
your very own path.
And thus, the one she
risked her life to protect
is still going
strong to this day.
Question is, with this life
you've been given,
the life that the
Legendary Lyza gave you,
how will you use it?
Thank you so much
for talking with me!
[Leader] It didn't take long
for Lyza to settle the score
with the country that
caused her trouble.
Then, she went back
and recovered the Bell.
Yeah, some tales are
better left untold.
[bells ringing]
It's just up ahead.
I shall accompany
you as an observer.
[door creaking closed]
Please refrain from
touching anything.
What is all this?
I know my mother went
down there 10 years ago.
Yet, none of these findings
are listed in the Field Guide.
I've never seen any
of these before.
What's the matter, Riko?
Is it the letter?
-That looks like--
-Yeah.
Some parts are different
here and there, but this is--
Riko, there's a piece of paper
here with just writing on it.
[Riko] If it's a letter,
it's a pretty short one.
Hey, uh, shine a
light on it for me.
Oh, um, all right then.
Let's see here.
"At the netherworld's...
the bottom...
waiting..."
[Shiggy] "At the netherworld's
bottom, I'll be waiting."
What made you decide
to swipe this, Riko?
Because it's a letter that
my own mother wrote to me, so
I think that gives me
permission to swipe it.
[Nat] So you're serious
about going, then?
Mhm.
And I'm going to
need all your help.
My mother is waiting for me.
[Shiggy] What's your plan once
you get past the Seeker camp?
I'll head for the
bottom of the Abyss
where my mom will
be waiting, duh.
I'll find the route
along the way.
[grunt]
What's the matter with you, Nat?
I'm totally against this.
The bottom of the Abyss?
You talk about it like it's no
big deal, but if you go there,
you can never come back!
What's this all of a sudden?
You know I've always wanted
to be a White Whistle,
so I've already
prepared for that.
No. You don't get it, Riko!
You'll never be able to come
up here and see any of us
ever again.
[groaning]
Yeah, that's right!
[Nat] You won't get to hang
out at Auntie's or attend
Jiruo's lessons or play with
any of us out in the yard.
-It'll all be over.
-I know that!
Like I said, I already
know all of that, okay?
What-- what are
you crying about?
Well, you're crying
too, you dummy!
[Shiggy] Can we just call it a
night and get some rest please?
Since tomorrow is Reg's first
cave raid and everything?
-Ready to go.
-[fighting continues]
[Riko] Shut up, already!
[Reg] At the nether world's
bottom, I'll be waiting.
[Nat] Hey, Reg?
Reg!
What is it?
If you keep digging up
the grass,
all you're going
to find are bugs.
If you're set on digging, try
that flat spot over there.
This?
Whoa.
Huh?
Looks like there's
something under here.
Hey, uh, Nat?
What's this thing?
It's all round and
feels real squishy.
Oh, uh, that thing's also
a relic of the Abyss.
Not sure exactly what, though.
It has amazing force
holding it together.
Could it be that this is
possibly a special-grade relic?
No, man.
You're not going to find
anything but just junk
around here.
-[slam]
-Huh?
To say that this is
junk is irredeemable.
But wait a second, if
this is considered junk,
does that mean
it's okay to keep it?
No, don't do that.
They'll string you up.
Even junk can sell
for good money
over in the foreign countries.
Being an apprentice
is pretty tough, huh?
Hmm.
Oh, look.
I think I see
something back there.
This is incredible.
There's no way to these
little squishy things.
Oh, yeah?
Well, then you just
leave the rest to me.
There's still more in here.
Oh?
[loud crash]
Ah!
Oh my god, there's
something else in there!
Oh, that's the skeleton
of someone in prayer.
Those remains are
2,000 years old,
and all are posed the same way.
Oh.
I wouldn't think
you'd freak out,
seeing as how you're
a robot and all.
Say, that reminds me.
Have you ever heard about
the birthday disease?
Children who have been eagerly
awaiting their birthdays,
they are suspiciously dying
whenever the day arrives.
The causes of their
death can vary,
but nonetheless, all of them
have still just dropped dead.
The story goes if you look
at a mirror
the morning of your birthday,
your reflection
will have a twisted neck.
And once you get a glimpse
of your twisted neck...
I don't believe in
that kind of stuff!
You're so spooked that you're
totally dripping with sweat!
[Nat laughs]
Okay.
Well, there is still one
thing I want to believe in.
Huh?
That answers are at the
bottom of the nether world.
That's what I believe.
The true nature of
these relics,
the cause of the
Curse of the Abyss,
perhaps even the meaning
behind my creation,
or the reason I came here.
It's possible, right?
That I'll find some
answers if I just
reach the bottom of the Abyss?
Well, that's the feeling I get.
What, you too?
You're both crazy.
Like I said before, I'm
against you going, okay?
It's ridiculous!
I mean, you're both just Red
Whistles, and she's only 12!
I know, but Nat--
Forget it.
You know how I feel.
So then have you decided which
day you're going to set off?
I'm going to be heading out
tomorrow just before daybreak.
Huh?
I've already packed
up my things.
[Shiggy] You aren't
wasting any time.
Okay, so how exactly do you plan
on slipping into the Abyss?
They have guards keeping
watch all the time.
Not sure yet.
[Reg] I'll use my arms
to lower you down.
[others] Huh?
Riko.
I am going down with you,
down to the netherworld.
Ah! Really?
I thought for sure you would
be one of the people trying
to stop her.
I bet Riko somehow convinced
you into going, didn't she?
What?
Riko didn't say a
single thing to try
to get me to go with her.
I decided myself.
I want to go down there to
find out what I am, all right?
Oh, Reg.
Thank you!
I couldn't bring myself
to actually say anything!
I'm going to meet my mom so
I didn't think hogging you
all to myself would be right.
[Reg] Weren't you the one who
found me in the first place?
I mean, I've already climbed
the Abyss once now, right?
Even if my memory
doesn't return,
I still have this sturdy body.
I'll protect you all the
way down to the bottom.
[affirmative grunts]
There's no stopping you now.
Sorry.
I'll be sad to leave you guys,
but my curiosity
has the better of me.
It's okay.
Even if we tried to stop her,
she'd still find a way to go.
[Riko] Mm-hmm.
[Shiggy] By the way,
do you have any idea what
lies in your path on the way
to the netherworld's bottom?
Well, like I know
there are a bunch
of random dangerous creatures.
Don't tell me.
You believe that you'll be able
to reach the bottom by using
your extended arms to descend
both of you little by little.
Is that more or less your plan?
I'm sure there
will be obstacles.
But yeah, that's kind of it.
Oh my god!
You are going to need a
lot more than that, pal!
Hmm?
The Abyss is teeming with
dangers far beyond anything
you can possibly imagine.
It's crazy down there!
What are you holding, Shiggy?
It's the latest Rough Map
of the nether world.
[Riko] That's awesome, Shiggy!
Did you sneak in
there and take it?
Um, Riko, you are about to
challenge the Abyss head on.
So sneaking into the
Director's office
is nothing compared to that.
As of now, this is the
current state of the Abyss.
The first layer is at about
1,350 meters down,
the Edge of the Abyss.
The creatures and environment
here don't really change,
but beasts from the second
layer come up to feed,
so keep your eyes open.
Starting here is
the second layer,
the Forest of Temptation.
The strain of ascending is said
to become more severe here.
If a Red Whistle descends down
that far, no help will be sent.
-Hmm?
-That's because
both heading there and returning
become too difficult.
It's treated as a suicide.
The forest will take the
shape of a rat guard,
meaning you entered
The Inverted Forest.
The air currents are
super unstable here,
and savage predators
fill the sky.
The third layer is called
the Great Fault.
Here you'll find
a vertical cliff base
over 4,000 meters
standing in your way.
The fourth layer, only Black
Whistles and above can go here.
The depth is about 7,000 meters.
They call it
The Goblets of Giants.
Look, Riko,
sorry to bring this up
when you're so excited--
Whatever it is you say,
I'm still going to go!
My mother is waiting for me!
Have you even been
paying attention at all?
You think anyone
could live somewhere
like that for 10 years?
-What are you?
-Think about it.
Why did her whistle
make it back up here?
Face it.
Your mother died
a long time ago!
Oh.
[whimpering]
[crying]
Oh, I didn't-- uh.
[Riko cries]
Riko!
There, there.
It'll be okay.
[sigh]
I've lowered the luggage
and our spare clothes.
Great. Thank you, Reg.
So do you think they'll know
who I am if I'm wearing this?
Probably not.
Where did Nat run off to?
[Shiggy chuckle]
About that.
Nat's probably just stopped--
Look, I don't care
what he's doing!
He's so worried about you he
ended up crossing the line.
Hmph! So?
Riko, you might never get
the chance to see him again.
Come on, you really
want to leave like this?
Because I don't.
I don't really want
to either, Reg.
But look, he's
totally against us
going and said some mean stuff.
So, Reg, what do
you want me to do?
Riko, if Nat apologizes,
will you forgive him?
Um, yeah.
But he can be quite
stubborn when he wants to.
[Reg] Don't worry.
Nat regretted what he did.
-Really?
-Really.
All right then, you two.
If you don't move it,
you'll run out of time.
So that we don't draw
too much attention,
we'll leave one by
one every 10 minutes.
Kiyui. Kiyui.
Huh?
What is it?
I came to tell you goodbye.
-[coughing]
-Hey.
Are you not feeling very well?
Come to think of it, I
guess you always seem tired.
In two days it's my birthday.
Oh, really?
I hope you're better
before your big day.
And grow up strong.
Oh, and, Kiyui, on the
morning of your birthday,
do not look into the mirror.
Why not?
Just don't, okay?
If you say so.
See you later.
Farewell, friend.
That took longer
than I thought.
I better hurry.
-[Leader clears throat]
-Oh!
I'm going to the bathroom.
There aren't any
toilets in that room.
I was still half asleep.
What are you doing up in
the middle of the night?
I'm on patrol,
you little pipsqueak.
You know where Riko is?
I didn't see her in her bed.
Oh, yeah.
She went to take a dump.
She went in the
middle of the night?
Yeah. She has an
upset stomach.
Is she scavenging food again?
Girl just doesn't quit,
does she?
I take it you're on the
way to the bathroom, right?
Make sure she's okay.
Um, roger that.
Oh, there he is.
[Reg] Sorry I took so long.
[Riko] Shiggy, we're headed off
to the Wharf Quarter now, right?
[Shiggy] Yeah. The usual
gate to the netherworld
is too closely
guarded all the time.
I heard that the Wharf
Quarter in the slums
has a spot where
you can lower down.
-You heard?
-Yeah.
You've never actually been
to the Wharf Quarter before,
so I called someone
to help us out.
We're in your hands.
Who's this?
Really, Nat?
What are you doing here?
Well, I...
Sorry.
That was wrong, what I did.
-You're forgiven!
-Huh?
Uh, so, um, even though
I said terrible things?
It's fine.
I want us to make up.
Cause today we say farewell.
[gasp]
You don't know your way to
the Wharf Quarter, do you?
Follow me.
[Riko] Hey, Nat.
You're helping us
out because you're okay
with us going now, right?
-I'm still against it.
-Huh? Seriously?
[Reg] Is this still
part of Orth?
[Shiggy] The Wharf District
was founded by people who
were cave raiding illegally.
Buildings kept being
added as the quarter grew,
and now half of it is
encroaching into the Abyss.
[Riko] Nat, have you
been here before?
Of course.
This is where I was born.
You were?
I was rag picking my whole life.
My big sister died and
left me without a family,
so I was taken in
by the orphanage.
That's the story I told the
leader Jiruo when I first
entered the orphanage.
[Nat] You know, if I can become
a Moon Whistle like Jiruo,
I'd like to open up
an orphanage here.
[Riko] Of all people,
you can do it.
You're almost as good
at cave raiding as me,
and you like kids.
You honestly can't come up with
a better compliment than that?
Oh?
[Nat] Really?
We're already here?
[electrical noise]
Huh.
So this thing really
does fit me to a T.
Where did I put that whistle?
Huh?
What's this?
Oh.
I think there's a real
possibility, you know.
You have an Aubade with you,
so I'll definitely be a believer
if one of your mail balloons
makes it up here.
[laughing]
I'll have to make sure to
include a souvenir, then.
[Shiggy] You better,
and make it a good one.
-I'll keep on reading...
-Riko.
...as long as it takes.
Riko.
Mm?
What is it, Nat?
Thanks for getting us here.
I didn't think we'd
make it without running
into at least a little trouble.
Oh, yeah.
You are the best, you know that?
[whimper]
So, um, Riko?
Hm?
I--
Come on, Nat.
So much to say.
Listen, I, uh...
I've been dreading this moment.
[Riko] It's all right.
[gasp]
Even if we-- we never
see each other again,
we'll still be
connected by the Abyss.
Be it on the surface
or in the far reaches
of the cursed netherworld,
the two of us
will always be connected.
I'll never forget about the time
I spent up here with you, okay?
It's all gonna be all right!
Hm.
What is it now?
Looks like you're
at it again, Riko.
[sniffling]
That's right!
I am at it again!
[resident 1] Shut up!
Oh, crap, we're waking them up.
[resident 2] Go home, you brats!
Let's get going, Reg.
[wind howling]
You better send some
letters up here.
I'll make sure
to find them, okay?
Be careful, you guys.
And it's totally fine if
you decide to come back.
[Nat] I'm counting on you
to take care of Riko.
I understand.
You guys take care
of yourselves, too.
Thanks to both of you.
Keep an eye out for
all my good news.
Well then, I guess
we're off now.
[Narrator] And so the two
head off into the chasm
from which even darkness
cannot escape.
The Abyss is said
to provide all...
Life and death,
curses and blessings.
As their journey moves forward,
they will be faced with many
choices,
and the outcome is just
as likely to be determined
by the great Abyss
itself as it is
by those who dare challenge it.
[birds chirping]
Huh?
-[snoring]
-Hey, Reg. Time to get up.
[screaming]
-Whoa!
-Someone's here!
[panting]
It's me.
Oh...
[sigh]
I'm not even really sure
when I drifted off to sleep.
I guess I couldn't help myself.
Your belly was just
so warm and soft.
It's understandable.
We hardly ever got
to stay up that late.
Here.
Thank you.
Hey, Reg, you have
any idea where we are?
We dropped directly down
from the wharf district,
but I couldn't really
say where that puts us.
Though the depth gauge
is indicating 820 meters.
Hmm.
Riko, what is it?
[panting]
Whoa!
[Riko] It's beautiful.
[Reg] It seems so much brighter
here than up on the surface.
Ah, over there.
It's the Rock Ark.
That's at 600 meters.
Look how far above us it is.
Not long ago, I was aiming
for a depth of 400 meters,
and now we can't even see it.
Oh.
Hm?
[squeal]
This is great!
At this pace, we'll make it to
the bottom in no time at all,
but, of course, we cannot let
our guard down, you know.
Well, that's good
to hear, I guess.
-So, Riko, uh--
-[stomach growls]
Uh...
Let's have some breakfast.
[Riko] Take out the
demon fish innards,
making sure not to damage them.
Then smoke them to keep
them preserved for later.
As for the meat, put a
hardy helping in the pot,
and sprinkle a bit of
Eternal Fortunes on top.
Mix in some stick miso,
and then once you
throw in a bunch of diced
sainona greens...
Ta-da!
My special Riko soup
is ready to enjoy.
Irredeemable...
Eat it.
[slurps]
Oh, it tastes better
than Riko Bombs.
Oh, Riko, what's that
you're playing with?
This here is my Star Compass.
Oh, that helps you
tell up from down?
Nope, it always points
directly to the bottom
of the netherworld.
Let me take a look.
It doesn't seem
magnetic or weighted.
How very strange.
Even if you shake it, the
direction of the needle
doesn't move a bit.
Wait, really? Give it here.
Another relic
of the Abyss, huh?
I get the feeling there's
some incomprehensible
principle at work.
[gasp]
Ah!
[Riko screams]
It's fine. Really, it is.
There's an old saying: "All
that is taken from the Abyss
will someday be returned to it.
Oh, I see then.
The teachings of cave raiders
can be quite humbling.
Yeah, well, Leader
taught me that one.
Oh, that's right.
We were rushing around so
much I forgot about this.
What is it?
An envelope?
Well, go on, take a look inside.
Oh, wait, this is my
mother's sealed letter.
Reg, did you make off with this?
No, take a closer look.
The pages we saw last time
were all tattered here.
This is probably just a copy.
Yeah, you're right.
Back when we left the
orphanage, I actually
-bumped into Jiruo in the hall.
-Huh?
At the time, I thought I really
had him fooled, but perhaps not.
Because, well, I
suddenly realized that thing
was in my back pocket.
Oh, yeah?
I wonder if he's cheering
us on from the sidelines.
There's a page that's
different than the others.
Oh.
[concerned whimper]
Huh?
[Reg] "I'll depart at dawn
to come capture you"?
We've got to hurry
up and get going!
Okay, Reg, go put
out the campfire.
-I'm on it.
-Oh God, what do we do?
I'll make sure we're
not leaving anything!
[Reg] Why would Leader
do something so
out of the ordinary?
He must be testing us.
Maybe this is our final
lesson or something.
Like if he's able
to catch us,
then we never had a chance of
making it to the bottom anyway.
[Reg] It would seem
our pursuers still
haven't caught up
with us yet.
[Riko] We've strayed
from the usual route,
so even if they come after us,
they won't find us easily.
Besides, the search
parties always
move in groups of at
least three people,
so we should see them
coming way before--
Huh?
What's the matter, Riko?
Look at that, Reg!
See the break in
the clouds there?
It's the second layer,
the Forest of Temptation.
So this is the second layer?
If a Red Whistle
ever goes down there,
it's treated as a suicide.
[voice] Where?
What was that?
Was that my own voice?
[sigh]
Are you okay?
It's so pretty,
I got light-headed.
Riko, let's take a break.
Riko, I was just thinking
about the delusion
you seem to have about
the letter we found.
About it being
our final lesson?
It's not a delusion, okay?
I was thinking you just might
not be mistaken in that.
Leader told me that it's
necessary for him to patrol
every night, and let's just say
he was able to see through us.
Perhaps he uncovered our nightly
plot and was able to figure out
I'm a robot.
He then made it a point to
place that letter in my pocket.
We must escape and prove
we're up to the task.
Yeah!
[Riko giggles]
[distant clang]
[gasp]
They've caught us, but
it's just one person.
Can we slip away?
[man] I'd expect nothing less
from Lyza's daughter.
Y'all are pretty fast,
aren't you now?
Uncle Habo?
Why are you here?
How about that?
Looks like I might have
some skills of my own, huh?
[Reg] What should I do?
Maybe I can let Riko escape.
That being said, look at you.
Never would've thought, you
being a supreme treasure
of the netherworld and all.
[laughs]
Is your skin
considered a relic, too?
You can't really tell
just by looking at it.
[Reg screams]
Well, now, looks like
there's nothing mechanical
about your jumblies.
Stop it! Let me go!
[Habo] Hey, stop kicking!
Huh?
[Habo] Taking into account
the weight of your backpack,
you're pretty darn light.
[Riko] I guess he still hasn't
learned the hand signals yet.
[laughs]
Sorry, kids.
I still haven't told
you why I'm here.
Don't you worry.
I didn't come out here to
try and haul you two back.
Huh?
Please, we're begging you.
You don't need to get them
to the Seeker Camp,
just maybe help them get
down to the second layer.
Besides, this is
your last chance
to see the actual true form
of a real supreme treasure.
So, uh, you're saying Reg
is an honest to goodness
treasure of the netherworld?
[Shiggy] Y-yeah.
[laughs] Then I'll go.
So you see,
I came to pay my respects
to this fancy relic here.
I wish you would have kept it
to just paying your respects.
[laughs]
By the way, kiddo,
the search party
was looking for you
by the twisting crag.
I suspect it'll
take them awhile.
[laughs]
Well, all right, you two,
I've had my look
at the treasure of
the nether world.
-Let's get to hoofing.
-Hm?
And I'll come with you
to the Seeker Camp.
It's reassuring to have
a Black Whistle with us.
Don't you think, Riko?
Uncle Habo, so maybe...
I'm so sorry!
I cannot allow that of you!
Well, the thing is...
this is our final lesson.
[birds chirping]
Oh, I see then.
Pretty clever of him really.
Well, if this is
your final lesson,
I won't get in your way,
but he should have come
to see you off one last time.
I'm sorry, Habo.
I know you came all
the way down here.
Not a problem, kid.
Actually, I have some other
business down here anyway.
Here.
What is this thing?
It's a vaccine for
the second layer
that blue whistles
and up take.
It should spare you from picking
up the main illness down there.
Lastly, but also the most
important thing to know,
since I won't be
accompanying you any further,
I should tell you this now.
That Seeker Camp monitoring
base that you're heading to,
the guardian there can
be a bit of a nut-job.
You mean the person who
found my mom's sealed letter?
That's right.
Unmovable Sovereign,
Ozen the Immovable...
a White Whistle
who is still active.
A White Whistle?
And the very one who
helped save my life?
That's awesome!
I don't get it, Habolg.
That doesn't seem
like anything we
need to be too worried about.
Please just try and
be wary of Ozen, okay?
I can't really go
into the details,
but, Riko, you might encounter
some distressing things.
Just be prepared.
I'll be fine, uncle.
I would like to meet a
white whistle anyway.
I want to ask her about my mom
and about the time when she
found my mom's sealed letter.
And besides, I'm super tough.
[Habo] You're right,
you'll be fine.
You've got a good partner
with you, after all.
And, Reg, take care
of her, you hear me?
Understood.
Leave it to me.
-Oh, look, Reg, you see that?
-Huh?
It's a wind-riding windmill.
Apparently a long time ago, they
used those to capture updrafts.
I hear they've been around
for more than 4,000 years.
The fact that we've
passed by them,
well, you know what that means.
Whoa.
This is the depth's
second layer.
[laughs]
We really did it, Reg!
We actually survived Leader's
big lesson in the Abyss!
You hear that?
We managed to pull
it off, Leader!
I guess it really
hasn't hit me yet.
Did we actually just get away
from all the cave raiders?
Totally!
We don't have to worry about
anyone chasing us anymore.
[roaring]
[both gasp]
If we descend any further,
no help will be sent.
Because heading down and
returning
becomes too difficult.
I'm pretty sure
that's what Shiggy said.
So in other words, down here,
even the search party
would find itself
in harm's way.
We should get moving, Reg.
It might be calling
its buddies over.
Yeah, good idea.
It's not that we've
actually escaped,
but rather, now we're
free to be pursued
by all kinds of things that
exist outside the realm of man.
Okay, let's see now.
We're supposed to go
down from around here.
We should head to
the Seeker Camp.
[distant shouting] Help me!
I hear a voice.
Hmm? What's the matter?
Shh! Someone's calling out.
[distant shouting] Help me!
Let's go!
Somebody needs our help.
Huh? Really?
[panting]
Help me!
[animal grunting]
[distorted] Help!
[growling]
That's a cave raider
laying down on the ground.
Maybe I can lure it away.
Help me!
[growling]
[distorted] Help... me...
Help!
Wait! Hold on, Reg.
This whole thing
could be a trap.
A trap?
I think that thing
is a corpse-weeper.
They mimic their
prey's cries for help
to lure others to
their colonies.
Which means that...
that man is dead.
[growling]
Oh!
Reg, get down!
Ah!
Riko!
Another one?
What was I thinking?
It's okay.
It's still in range.
Just calm down.
I cannot miss this.
[Riko screams]
[gasp]
Oh!
Reg!
This is bad.
Is this what it's
always like down here?
-Ah!
-Reg!
[whimpering]
[grunting]
Riko!
Too far.
Oh, she's being
fed to the chicks?
Riko, no!
Leave her alone!
No!
Riko?
What?
What can I do?
[gasp]
[voice] Where-- where am I?
[voice] Go!
Wait.
This-- this feeling--
my body remembers this.
It's familiar.
I did something
like this before.
-[clanking]
-[charging up]
[explosion]
[screeching]
[panting]
[Riko moaning]
[sigh]
I could have-- it could
have hit Riko by mistake.
[heavy breathing]
I don't understand.
What is this?
What am I?
Oh, she doesn't really
seem to be injured.
Reg?
Ah! Hey!
Riko.
You wouldn't wake up earlier.
I got really worried.
Uh... But you should
stay lying down.
You were taking so long to wake
up that I thought you were hurt
and well your clothes were all
covered with vomit and stuff.
Seriously, Reg.
You don't really need to act
so embarrassed around me.
Besides, you're the one
who swooped in and saved me
from certain death.
Reg, should we, uh...
Huh?
Did you-- did you do this, Reg?
I lost myself in the moment.
I can't believe I ended
up doing all this.
Holy cow!
It must've come out of
this thingy on your hand!
We should totally
give it a name.
Like the "Incinerator."
I think we should call it that.
Riko, I'm not in the
mood for this right now.
If I'd been just a
little off target
I could have blown you away.
If that happened,
I would have lost it.
Reg, it's all right.
-Huh?
-Let's think.
So it was around this
big or so, yeah?
What are you talking about?
The size of the blast
from your Incinerator.
Reg, don't you get it?
You saved me the first time.
That was from like
200 meters away.
This is a good thing.
Remember, you're able
to control that power.
I can help you train.
This great power you have here
is something you can master.
Riko.
[eerie music playing]
Oh.
[moaning]
What's wrong?
Oh.
Are you all right?
Hey, Reg?
Hey, Reg!
[thud]
[chewing sounds]
[Riko] Somebody help me.
It's gone.
It's nowhere.
Gone for good.
Ah!
[Riko] It's gone!
Huh?
-Riko?
-Huh?
Oh, Reg, you're finally awake.
So, um, are you
feeling all right now?
You fell asleep and I couldn't
get you wake up no matter what.
Did firing that
thing wear you out?
I don't really know,
but I'm fine now.
That's great.
Good to hear.
Anyway, so what were you
talking about just now.
Oh... oh, yeah.
I can't find my cave raiding
notebook anywhere.
Hmm.
The book you're always
drawing pictures in, right?
Yeah.
I guess I must have
dropped it when
that corpse-weeper snatched
me up and tried to eat me.
If that's the case.
Well, there's nothing we can do.
-Is that okay?
-Mm-hmm.
But if I had to lose it,
I would have
preferred to have gotten to the
bottom of the netherworld first.
Because I mean, when it's found
a long time from now
it'll only contain my writings
up until this point,
so my righteous legend
won't spread as far.
[Reg] Hmm?
Oh, I didn't even get
to add your Incinerator.
That would've been awesome
to add to your bio-page.
That's my only real
regret of losing it.
Yeah, well I bet she
wrote something in there
about my penis,
and that stick.
I hope that stupid book
stays hidden in the darkness
for all eternity.
We can always make a new book.
Guh!
[cheerful music]
This is the real thing.
Over there.
The waterfalls are
flowing upward.
[wind howls]
That's a problem.
Not sure if you can
shoot straight.
The wind down here is
blowing like crazy.
I guess we can't keep taking
shortcuts like we have been.
[shiver]
You okay, Riko?
It feels a little colder here.
Will you be okay?
Should I get the
cold weather gear?
Mm-mm.
We can't spread our
supplies out here.
I'll be fine.
Riko, hold this for a second.
This is nice!
It's so warm.
Try to make do with that
until we're settled down.
Are you not cold at all, Reg?
I can feel the wind.
But no, I'm fine.
Figured as much.
Well, then I'll be
borrowing this.
[voice] Master! Master!
Someone's approaching.
Looks like two people.
One of them is a Red Whistle
and, well, the other one...
the other one doesn't even
seem to be a cave raider.
Shall I prepare the Gondola?
Master?
Feels better here.
The winds calm down.
It might be because we've left
the central part of the Abyss.
Come to think of it,
the creatures
are more peaceful here too.
[Reg] So that's how it works?
[Riko] The force field
carries light and nutrients
so there are more
creatures the closer you
get to the central shaft.
I've also heard that when you
get farther away from the Curse
it becomes a bit more bearable.
[Reg] So this is it.
This is the Seeker Camp.
It really is quite
high up there, isn't it?
Sure is.
Speaking of that...
What's the matter?
Well, it's just that...
I always thought that the camp
was supposed to have
some sort of lookout on duty.
So when someone
starts approaching
they're ready to
lower the Gondola
and bring the cave raider up.
Reg, you think you could
get a grip up that high?
Maybe with both arms I can.
I'll try it.
[Riko] Whoa!
I think I managed to--
Ugh!
Is there a problem, Reg?
Something has grabbed on...
onto my arms.
Huh?
[ominous music]
So it seems she's alive.
That little imp.
[cranking]
[groaning]
Riko, you all right?
[woman] Well, well, nicely
done enduring the ascent.
Although it's known
that the strain is
somewhat lighter around here,
it's still difficult on
children, as you can see.
-Um, allow me to--
-Hmm?
My name is Riko.
[vomiting]
Riko!
I know who you are.
You're Lyza's child, yes?
-[gasp]
-[Ozen laughs]
How filthy.
Well, I see the boy is
having no troubles here.
[Reg] Now that I see her
up close, she's enormous.
I'd say she's over two
meters tall, for sure.
And her hair,
how does she smooth it down
to look like that?
And then there's
her White Whistle.
I can guess who she is.
She must be Ozen,
Ozen the Immovable.
[Ozen] This whistle,
I never thought I'd
ever see it again.
[scraping sound]
So I take it you're
Ozen the Immovable.
You are, aren't you?
I heard that you're the
one who found the whistle.
Yes, you are correct.
I am known as Ozen
the Immovable.
Oh, well, then I must thank
you for saving my life!
[Riko groans]
I heard all about
it from our leader.
He said that whenever I
was born in the Abyss,
I was put in a curse
repelling vessel.
And then, together
you and my mother
carried me all the
way to the surface.
I see.
So you know.
That contraption was
awfully cumbersome.
I considered abandoning
you many times.
Takes me back.
We had to leave behind
that precious bell.
Things could have
been so very different
because if I'd left you,
that kid would have ended up
coming with me.
Such a pity I did what I did.
[laughs]
Master, uh...
You are a Red Whistle
if I'm not mistaken.
You should know better, coming
down to a place like this.
I had to.
I was summoned to come
here by my mother.
You see there?
That's why we're going to the
bottom of the netherworld.
So bear with me.
As soon as I ask a few
things about my mother,
we'll be gone
before you know it.
Um, please.
Ah, so that's it then?
Yes.
And let me guess.
You reason that makes it
okay for you to come here
of your own accord.
I'm sorry to bother you.
With that being said,
I'm interested in how
a Red Whistle even managed
to make it this far.
Seems you had a
little help with that.
Come, Marulk.
Right. Yes, Master.
Listen to what these
kids have to tell you.
You want me to do that?
Should be easier for children
to talk to a fellow child.
Uh... Uh...
If you'll excuse me, I still
have some things to attend to.
I'll be here to see you
out tomorrow morning.
Here, these are for you.
Please take one.
[gasp]
[Riko] Blue Whistles?
[Ozen] Just while you're
here at the camp.
It is only temporary, of course.
It would be far
too awkward to keep
explaining to the
other cave raiders
why a couple of Red
Whistles are here.
As a bit of insurance,
I'll be holding on to this.
I'll exchange it for those
Blue Whistles when you leave.
Please stay within the
Seeker Camp for the night,
and make sure you really
give yourselves a good scrub.
You reek of vomit.
It's revolting.
[groaning]
Oh, first of all, allow
me to show you around.
Okay, here you go.
You may use this room.
-[water flowing]
-[both] Whoa!
Oh, and the bath's over there.
It's actually used for
washing relics, but...
You mind if I go first?
I can't wait to get cleaned up.
Huh?
[Reg] Flowers of Fortitude,
they're also called
Eternal Fortunes.
They really are everywhere
down here, aren't they?
I know you're a robot
and all, but there's
something peculiar about you.
Until Riko told me, I would
have sworn that you were just
a regular kid.
So I was a bit surprised when
I saw that your arms could
extend out like they do.
I am, but to tell the truth,
I don't think of myself
as a robot.
I don't even know
what I am really.
Is there something wrong, Reg?
Is it okay if
I call you Marulk?
Of course.
Well, then, Marulk,
I also have something
I find strange about you.
And what is that?
Ask whatever you want, and
I'll answer you if I can.
So, like, um,
are you a boy or a girl?
[gasp]
[Marulk] A while back, I had
an accident and collapsed,
but Master found
me and took me in.
And I've been here at the
Seeker Camp ever since.
[Riko] Huh? You've got no plan
to return to the surface?
I'm a little too sensitive
to sunlight nowadays,
so I really can't
go back up there.
Oh, yeah, is that so?
Yep. Now let's eat.
Thanks for the food.
And well, ever since
Master first took me in,
whenever she's gone up,
she's hired sentries
to look after me.
I was told I wouldn't
make it so that I
would no longer have to keep
returning to the surface.
Of course, it's
probably something
that she wanted deep down,
but I must say,
I truly have been treated well.
She seems kind of scary,
to tell you the truth,
but she's a good master,
isn't she?
Oh!
Oh, yes, she's
definitely that.
I need to go pee.
Uh, Miss Ozen?
-[clattering]
-Huh?
Is anybody in there?
[slimy sound]
[gasp]
[screams]
There, there, Riko.
I used to do that, too, until
just a couple of years ago.
But, Riko, how did
you end up wetting
my bed instead of yours?
I really did my best to
try and find a toilet,
but then whenever I got
up to go and look for it,
I saw something creepy.
Hmm?
It didn't seem to
be from this world.
So I got really scared,
and I kinda ran away.
I was so terrified that
I dove into Reg's bed,
and that's when--
[laughs] Not from this world?
We've never had any reports of
ghosts or specters here before.
But I... I...
[Marulk] Ah, Master.
Sounds like you
children are having
an interesting conversation.
This is... I mean
to say, I'm sorry.
Oh, I understand now.
It's not a matter of
you not noticing it.
It's neither that
kid nor Habolg ever
told you anything
about it, did they?
Um, what are you talking about?
Do you really want to know?
Huh?
Yes, I do.
In that case, you'll
need to follow me.
This morning, I have
been speaking with Marulk
to learn more about you two.
Just to confirm what I was told,
you're trying to follow your
mother Lyza's trail, correct?
That's right!
Of course, you're aware
this reached the surface.
That means Lyza is dead.
This journey you're on
to meet your mother,
it ends right here and now.
Huh?
[Riko] Please.
Where exactly did you find that
whistle and the sealed letter?
At a grave, dear.
What?
How long has it been
since the fourth layer?
In the far reaches of
the Goblets of Giants,
there grows a cluster
of Eternal Fortunes,
and lying there among the
petals was a lonely grave.
I guess it's fitting.
Lyza was always quite
fond of that place.
It's not over.
My mother is calling for me.
[Ozen] You're wrong.
That is not Lyza's handwriting.
Huh?
Lyza wouldn't write
something like that,
not even as a sick joke.
[whimpering]
Tell me, what was your reason
for aiming for the bottom
of the netherworld again?
Do you even know?
Because I want to
see for myself.
Well, isn't that a fine idea.
Are you planning to
dig up her grave?
I just want to find the--
to find the
connection between Reg
and the figure
mentioned in the letter.
[laughs]
Is that what this is all about?
Where is it you're taking us?
My private chamber.
You've followed me here because
you want to know the truth, yes?
Then please, come inside.
[nervous sighs]
[Reg] What's--
What's this cube thing?
[Riko] This pattern is
incredibly intricate.
It's at least a grade-two relic.
How come in the guide
that records relics--
That's right, it's not listed.
It's something Lyza
personally bought
before it could
be auctioned off.
Huh?
So then is this?
Is this the
Curse-Repelling Vessel?
Well, you're half right.
[deep resonating tone]
[Riko gasps]
The Curse-Repelling Vessel,
from the deep up to the surface,
creatures unable to
make the trip were
placed inside
and carried up,
leaving them unaffected by
the strain of ascent,
which is where it got its name.
But that ended up not
being exactly the case.
In fact, whatever is
placed inside is still
affected by the curse.
Dead or alive, it
will begin to move.
[screeching]
And it was all thanks to you
that I came to realize that.
Did you know that at your
birth, you were stillborn?
When Lyza delivered you in the
depths, you were already dead.
Basically, that made
you a bit of a nuisance,
so I shoved you inside,
but you somehow started
to come back to life.
It got me feeling
nostalgic last night,
so I tried putting
some of the meat
that I cooked for
dinner in there.
Unfortunately, it got loose
and started to roam around.
After a while, much of
it eventually stopped,
but half of it continued
to lurk about the camp.
You know...
I wonder how long you will last
down in the deepest depths.
What's unusual is
back then, after you
started to move
as well as my meat dish,
both of you attempted to head
toward the center of the Abyss.
Why do you think that is?
You, of all people, might
have some thoughts on that.
You're essentially the same as
that festering piece of meat.
Please, Master,
don't tell her that.
Why would you say that to me?
It's about time you
understand the full picture.
I despise you and your
rotten half dead soul.
What is it now?
You want something,
Aubade child?
Your story sounds quite
interesting to say the least,
but I won't allow you
to hurt Riko anymore.
You are being very
vindictive and mean
like an immature child!
Ah, yes, I used to
hear that a lot.
Tell me, boy,
do you have any
conception of God?
[ominous music]
What's that have to
do with anything?
All of those who decide
to stay down here,
they don't believe in any
sort of almighty deity.
[grunting]
Instead, they have something
else to believe in, the truth.
It's stronger than God
because it is the Abyss itself.
And since its end is unknown,
that fear garners it the power
to become their almighty.
If it was a simple task to
head down and return home
whenever anyone pleases,
the value of the relics
and the faith in the
Abyss would be shaken.
There's a reason
the Aubades aren't listed
in any of the guides.
Not because they
haven't been discovered,
but because they
simply should not exist.
What the-- She has
incredible strength.
My arm, it's creaking.
Boy, did I hear that you
lost all your memories?
Well, that makes my
job a little easier.
I need to dispose of you before
anything comes back to you.
I-- I'll just go and check
on the telescope now.
Marulk, stay right there.
You cannot be serious!
As if I'd let things end
in a place like this!
I'm going to make you let us go!
[Ozen] Oh, I'll let you both go
after you have ceased to move.
This isn't doing
much to stop her.
What in the heck is she, anyway?
Your construction
appears quite remarkable.
It's a series of strands that
have all been woven together.
Well, whatever, have it back.
[Reg screams]
Interesting, you're much
lighter than I expected.
So your sturdiness must
be your big appeal.
Let's test that out.
[pained grunts]
[gasp]
Well, you're stronger
than the floor anyway.
Ow, that hurts.
That is it.
You did it now.
Hmph. You do have a fighting
spirit, I'll give you that.
It makes me wonder how
much more you can take.
[Riko] Stop it!
No, just stop it please!
You're going to crush him!
Stay out of my way.
[Riko screams]
[whimper]
Hmm?
Riko? Riko?
There's so much blood.
Sorry for this, Marulk.
This isn't an opponent
I can hold back on.
If I don't get serious,
I'm done for.
Do you have a little
something you wish to show me?
If I just let it rip, the whole
Seeker Camp could burn down.
Stay calm.
Refine it.
Thinner, sharper.
[footsteps]
You know, since you breathe and
blink even though you are just
a mechanical doll,
that means you too
will be hunted by the beasts.
Now what happens when your
toy here hits something?
How about we find out?
Huh?
[explosion]
Well, isn't that impressive?
It went straight through.
Irredeemable!
You must be put down!
[slam]
Huh?
What the-- What's
going on with your arm?
Oh, this here?
These are called
Thousand-Men Wedges.
I inserted 120
points over my body.
They're the secret
to all my vigor.
Well, as much as you
analyze my construction,
I'd say you're quite superhuman
yourself, right, Ozen?
I tend to fuss over
a lot of things.
I am rather old, after all.
[chuckle]
[whimper]
[slam]
[groaning]
[gasp]
Reg!
[screaming]
You're so noisy.
If you think he's
so precious,
you should have kept him
locked away from everyone.
For some reason, he just
went limp all of a sudden,
but it's no matter.
Sooner or later, you'll revert
back to a piece of meat anyway.
Look, I didn't go into
the Abyss because I
hoped to live a long life.
Hmm?
Just a bit longer is fine,
but I can never... without Reg.
If Reg's not by
my side, I can't!
You listen to me, Reg!
Don't you lose to her!
[pained groans]
That will not do.
Both of you are unfit for this.
[hammering]
Ah!
[Ozen] Ah, it fit
right in there.
-He's awake now.
-And he's still alive.
[scream]
[crying]
Riko?
Reg, don't you ever
leave me like that!
Did I just collapse again
and leave Riko alone?
Reg, watch Riko.
Take care of her, you hear me?
[whimpering]
No.
[both crying]
[Yerme] Now that
one's crying, too.
[Zabo] Yep, looks like Ozen has
been working her magic again.
[Simred] Poor little things.
Who the heck are you guys?
And what is it you want with us?
Oh, just some cave raiders.
We're Ozen's
Subterranean Bandits.
They're a bunch of good
for nothings with nowhere
to call home up on the surface.
They were told to stay out of my
business, but Marulk over there
decided to call them in.
Oh, I'm sorry, Master.
[Ozen] Along with a brat
who can't do anything
but cry and snot all over the
place and a mechanical boy who
fires his weapon
without even thinking
and uncontrollably passes out.
While those two over there
have yet to make a
single correct decision.
You acted in the most
appropriate manner
to try and save
your new friends.
Of course, that's my
apprentice for you,
though you did disobey me.
Expect to be
strung up later.
[sigh]
Ozen told us we needed to
keep hidden while the two
youngsters were staying with
us here at the Seeker Camp,
but with the explosions
and everything.
This kid came rushing over
to us crying and screaming.
Is that true, Marulk?
I am so sorry.
I didn't mean to scare you.
I know you said you wanted
to test Lyza's kid and all,
but you kind of overdid it.
Wait, what do you mean by that?
It's exactly what
it sounds like, boy.
Are you saying that was--
that was just all some sick act?
You had to be tested,
and if I don't go all out,
I won't get the point across.
You must know that I absolutely
hate childish tricks.
Then the part about
disposing of the Aubade--
I never had any
intention of doing that.
It's just you're too
sturdy to play with.
No matter how many times I
hit you, you wouldn't break.
So I got more and more
into trying to do it.
The creatures that inhabit
the deeper parts of the Abyss,
they are going to be far more
cunning and harsh than I am.
At your current level, you
won't be able to protect her.
Marulk, see that you
attend to the boy please.
If he's able to fill his
belly with human food,
then human medicine
should work as well.
Oh, okay.
If you continue pushing
on in your current state,
you're going to end up as
some poor creature's meal
or little seedbeds
for the Abyss,
or you'll just end up a
bloody stain
on the ground somewhere.
That said, there's
no guarantee you
won't end up the same while
I try to beat you into shape.
Oh, that's right.
There is one thing I
was deceiving you about.
That grave
I spoke of earlier...
there's no one buried there.
Huh?
I tell the truth.
Did you think I wouldn't dig
it up and see for myself?
Lyza is waiting
for you down there,
and you at least need
to give it a shot.
Riko?
[clanking]
[Ozen] How are
you feeling today?
I feel all right now.
[Ozen] The next group
of cave raiders
will arrive in three weeks.
I'll only be able to beat
you into shape until then.
Whether or not it proves
successful is another story.
Can you tell us
where we're headed?
Somewhere even further
than the Seeker Camp.
[creatures howling]
[Ozen] Here, most of the
creatures are quite docile,
perhaps because the force
field's light doesn't make it
all the way down.
Even so, creatures at this
level can see in the dark,
so you'll want to
keep your guard up.
Spend ten days here with
what you've got.
Show me you're able to survive.
But be sure not to go beyond
that Pillar Tree over there.
I will consider that as
an attempt to escape.
-Now then, I'm heading back.
-[both] Huh?
Do your best to protect this
girl so that she doesn't end up
a corpse again.
In addition, you cannot use
that thing for ten days either.
My Incinerator?
Well, you may use it if you
wish to get Riko killed.
What do you mean?
Once you fire that
thing, no matter
how much you push yourself,
you always faint afterwards,
and then it's a full two hours
before you wake up again.
During that time, even when
I punched you, slammed you
to the floor, stepped on your
ribs, or dunked you in water,
you were unable to get back up.
What do you think will happen
to her all alone for two hours
in the second layer?
She will surely be torn
to shreds and eaten.
Still, if you really do
have to use that thing,
be sure whatever it is, it
isn't able to come after you
in the future.
No matter your
opponent or whatever
lies in the vicinity,
when the time comes,
do not hesitate
or show any mercy.
Otherwise, your grand
adventure in the Abyss
will be over before it begins.
Have fun.
[determined grunts]
[laughing]
[Ozen] How's it looking?
Well, that Riko certainly
seems to be plucky enough.
Unfortunately, her
body can't keep up
with what she wants to do.
And as for her partner,
although he is extraordinarily
resilient, he's constantly
losing his nerve...
[screams]
...which makes him
slow to react...
-[Reg screams]
-[slam]
...despite the fact
he's mechanical.
I see.
You're not going
out there to help?
If they die during
training, it just
means they don't have what
it takes to go any further.
You're incredibly strong, Reg,
but you don't weigh very much.
We'll have to come
up with a plan
if we want
to catch that hippo.
Okay then, maybe I
could extend my arms
to tie it to a
tree or something.
I like it.
We'll have to lead
it over there.
Okay, but how?
Ta-da!
[disgusted gasp]
We'll use this.
What the heck is it?
It stinks.
A mix of female dung
and tree bark.
I tore off a big piece
that's covered in pheromones.
We'll use this to lure it in,
and when it starts
to get close to us,
we'll blind it
with our glow-stones.
-Good?
-Uh, sure.
You think this plan
is going to work?
I'm sure it'll be fine.
Trust me!
[fire crackling]
[roaring]
Reg, go! Right now!
[roar]
[Zabo] Be it an immature
body or weak psyche,
they won't be showing
changes there anytime soon,
but just as you predicted, they
are making enormous progress
in the things in
which they excel.
Plus, there are two
of them after all,
so it's best that they learn
to depend on one another
during these times.
Depend on one another, you say?
Huh.
[girl] Ozen? Ozen?
Ozen, what's up with your hair?
It's like some sort of helmet.
Oh, great.
It's you again.
I've already kicked you twice,
but you keep coming back.
So what's up
with it anyway?
You want to know?
My hair covers up
all my battle scars.
As your mind comes under attack
in the depths of the Abyss,
gradually the effects
show up physically.
They don't manifest immediately
like the sixth layers Curse,
but if you tread the boundaries
of sanity as well as life
and death, the skin on your
head eventually gets twisted.
That's pretty awesome.
If you can't keep
your mouth shut,
I'll be forced to
kick you again.
It's true, though.
It's awesome.
Even as the netherworld
tries to break you,
those scars are proof of your
fortitude in challenging it.
Ozen the Immovable, the
genuine White Whistle,
I would be most honored if you
would be my mentor in training.
Who did this?
Just you wait.
I'll find them and
annihilate them.
What's the matter, Ozen?
You giving up already?
This is beautiful, a whole
field of Flowers of Fortitude.
It doesn't even feel
like we're in the middle
of the netherworld.
I'd like you to meet
Torka from my squad.
We just got married!
[echoing thud]
[music playing]
I'm sorry, Ozen.
Do you mind just giving
me a little time alone?
[Ozen] This is
unbelievable, maddening.
First, Torka takes it
upon himself to pass away.
Then their baby makes its way
into this world stillborn.
And of course, you
would have the audacity
to leave its delivery
all up to me.
Why did you and Dumb Face
have to come along anyway?
Lyza had finally just
started to find herself,
and now she gets
treated like this.
Truly heartbreaking.
[Ozen] I never wanted to
see her in such a state.
I haven't much strength left.
Perhaps I could leave this
thing behind and just carry up
Lyza and the Bell instead.
[muffled cries]
[gasp]
[crying continues]
You can't be serious.
It appears I have taken
on yet another burden.
You can relax, child.
I am cursed with a
strong sense of duty.
Oh?
[sighing]
[sigh]
[laughs]
Um, are you doing
all right, Riko?
Yeah...
For some reason, it feels like
ages since we were last here.
You've been gone
exactly ten days.
Good work out there, Reg.
Both of you are some
bona fide cave raiders.
Hmm?
On my trip, I was
crying right away.
When you get further
out than the camp,
it's almost completely dark.
So when Master left me,
I had no idea where I was.
I must confess, at one point
along the way near the end
when I got separated
from Riko,
I started to feel
pretty hopeless.
Really? Is that true?
Absolutely, I did.
[Marulk] So you can
get scared, too?
-Mm-hmm.
-That makes me feel better.
Are you hungry at all?
I'll bring you guys some food.
So we've been gone
ten days, huh?
Now that I think
about it, the pain
from all of Ozen's
thrashing is gone.
[electrical noise]
Yes, restoration complete.
The pattern, is it
always like that?
Well, that's weird.
I wonder what it could mean.
I guess that settles it.
I'm never going to be
able to put on any muscle.
Reg! Riko!
Master says now
that you're back,
we should all sit down
and have a meal together.
Food!
So how was it out there having
to spend ten days on your own?
It was really nerve wracking,
wouldn't you say?
Yeah, totally.
Looking back, though, it feels
like it was over really fast.
It's said, don't stay
in the deep layers
if you don't want to kill
those who are waiting for you.
That old saying has been passed
down for a long, long time.
[Reg] What does
that even mean?
It can be particularly
twisted down
in the depths of
the fifth layer.
I intended to stay down there
but for a few weeks,
only when I finally returned
to the surface,
a few months had passed by.
Such episodes can
be quite common.
So that rumor is
actually true then?
It's no rumor, child.
I'm telling you flat out.
You see, only those
with enigmatic desires,
such as the White Whistles,
would ever make a home in the
deep layers of the netherworld.
You probably think
it has nothing really
to do with you since you plan on
making a journey of no return,
but the problem is
that we can't even
estimate the extent to which
this aberration manifests
in the depths of the
sixth and seventh layers.
I have a feeling that
perhaps not as much time
has actually passed for
Lyza as we might think.
It's been ten years
on the surface,
but if we assume only a
fraction of that has actually
passed at the bottom
of the netherworld,
then don't you get the
feeling there's
a chance that your mother is
still very much alive and well?
I do. Yes, I do.
[laughs] Thank you, Ozen!
-[smack]
-[whimpering]
Well, even so, you
should do your best
not to stay in the
fifth layer too long.
And why is that exactly?
So that you don't
accidentally bump into any
of the other White Whistles.
The netherworld's fifth layer
is called the Sea of Corpses.
It's as deep as humans can
go and still return alive.
[bones cracking]
So you can be
certain some of them
are going to be down there.
Bondrewd in particular
is an out and out
reckless scoundrel.
He's not nearly as kind as I am.
So you should try to be careful.
Seriously?
Is that some kind of joke?
[smack]
Are you okay, Reg?
Ah, that's right.
On the subject of
your dear mother,
In the letter it said,
"At the netherworld's bottom,
I'll be waiting."
I would like to know
who actually wrote that.
Huh?
Using old nether glyphs without
any of the simplified forms.
And not just that, but
the paper it's written on
isn't even paper.
It's some form of relic.
It looks worn out,
but its durability
is rather astonishing.
Not even with my strength
can it be torn apart.
Just what in the
world is waiting
at the bottom of the
netherworld with your mother?
One way to find out.
Well, then both
of you, follow me.
This is for you.
What is it?
This is the Blaze Reap,
Everlasting Pickaxe.
You are correct.
Remember the grave marker in
the cluster of Eternal Fortunes
I spoke of?
Well, this is it.
This belonged to my mother.
Riko?
The everlasting gunpowder
inside it is fine,
but the casing is
in poor condition.
It can be used a few
more times at best.
As far as Lyza is concerned,
I'm sure she's already
found herself a new
weapon at this point.
If you like, I will
teach you how to use it.
It'll be an alternative to
that Incinerator of yours.
You really mean that?
I can't thank you enough!
[Yerme] So you're already
heading out, huh?
[Zabo] It's going to be
lonely around here.
Sorry.
I know it's kind of cold
Ozen not to come see you off.
No, no, it's all right.
She's already given
us so much, really.
She's taught us so
many things here.
I mean, it wouldn't be right
to ask any more of her.
Well, well.
Despite all appearances,
you're quite humble.
Hey, leave her alone.
[whimper]
[Riko] Marulk...
Huh?
Well, you take care, okay?
[gentle music plays]
[Marulk] I... I find it hard
to say this, but if you guys
come back and say
that it's impossible
and you're not going, it's okay.
Oh, Marulk.
[crying]
Yeah, I know.
It's just that I've watched
so many people leave us
and never come back again,
and now today is the saddest
that I've ever felt.
[crying]
[Ozen] Well, there it is.
As expected, Reg
and the girl were
quick to pick up on the
cave raiding techniques.
Although I didn't want to
let them go until a few more
memories came back to me.
Well, nothing I can do about it,
right, my dear Lyza?
That baby of yours
crawled toward the Abyss
the moment she was let out
of the vessel,
which always seemed
just a bit disturbing.
[Lyza] Thanks to you,
she's incredibly energetic.
My apprentice is
already fed up with her.
Well, isn't that splendid?
Wait, so you have your
own apprentice now?
His name's Jiruo.
You've met him before.
Oh, that rash, shameless
boy who had the audacity
to turn down my invitation?
The fact that she hasn't dropped
dead or been killed by now
means you're doing a
good job of keeping
that runt of yours
hidden away, but suppose
it came to light who she is.
If you're lucky, she'd be
kidnapped and held hostage,
but if you're not lucky,
you know exactly what
would happen to her.
[laughs] It'll be all right.
My apprentice is a
top-notch caretaker.
Be that as it may,
my daughter Riko
is incredibly precious to me.
No matter the relic or whatever
else I could offer as payment,
it's not enough.
Thanks to a myriad
of priceless things,
that girl is alive right now.
If I continue to
stay with her,
I'm liable to take away
her right to set off
on adventures of her own.
Plus, I myself
would likely give up
trying to reach for the Abyss.
So before that happens,
I am going to head out so
my girl's free to choose
the path she wishes.
[Ozen laughs]
I suppose that's one
way of putting it.
It's more likely simply
your urge to see the bottom.
Hey, Ozen, if Riko sets
out to reach the bottom
and ends up standing before you,
I'd like you to tell her.
You mean tell her about how
she's actually a living corpse?
Yes, that's right.
[chuckle]
[wind picks up]
And tell her what a miracle it
is she is alive in this world
and how to tackle the
magnificent obstacles she'll
find along the way.
Yeah, I don't know about that.
You can do it yourself.
But if we're just talking about
sending her down to you,
that I can do, Lyza.
Oh, Lyza, you're irredeemable.
So very irredeemable.
[Reg] The Inverted Forest...
it's so far above us.
Reg?
Huh?
Are you ready to do this?
Yes, of course.
[Narrator] The beginning
of brand new adventures,
along with fateful farewells,
overwhelming hope, joy,
unbearable tragedy and despair.
Life and death,
all is found within the deep.
However, to see all,
one must cast all aside.
To know all, one must
first relinquish all.
At the bottom of the pit,
at the conclusion
of the journey,
what will one finally grasp?
What is it that awaits?
It is something that
no one yet knows.
[bright instrumental music]